>> Nina Zakharenko: What if I
say daily.number_of_wheels=3?
And I copy and
paste these two print statements
>> Nina Zakharenko: All right,
for the class, it's still 4.
But now for this specific instance, and
I should say for this instance daily,
now the number of wheels is three, right?
Okay,
>> Nina Zakharenko: So inheritance.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let me
close this REPL window.
I have my class vehicle.
Let's make a new class.
And we don't necessarily want
the vehicle class to tell us how many
numbers a wheel has.
That's more of an implementation detail.
So I'm gonna take that away for now.
Instead, I'm gonna make two new classes.
I'm gonna make a class Car(Vehicle) and
inherit from vehicle.
And it's gonna have
a number_of_wheels = 4.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Notice that last
time when I showed you inheritance I
showed making a new init method for
that child class.
But I don't need one here, if I don't
provide an init method in the subclass,
which initializer is it going to use?
>> Nina Zakharenko: If there
is no init method here,
it'll just call the init method for
vehicle.
>> Nina Zakharenko: In the same way that
we saw if the vehicle has a variable,
it's available to all of its subclasses.
Same thing for methods.
Python will try to instantiate the car,
if it doesn't see it, it will look for
the vehicle, and
it'll just be that very same one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
let's say we have a class Truck.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's also a vehicle.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
the truck has six wheels
>> Nina Zakharenko: And it's also,
these trucks run on diesel, so
this time let's make a custom constructor.
I'll say def_ini_, pass in self.
I'll take a make, model, and
the fuel will be diesel.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, this time, I
wanna call the init on super, why is that?
Looking at the fuel here and
the fuel here, why is that?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz we need
to override that value?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,
I'm overriding this default value
>> Nina Zakharenko: And so super.init,
we're gonna pass in the make and
the model, and the fuel.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
now let's take a look at this.
And I wanna show you something
that's not in the class website.
But as a pretty cool feature of Python.
I can open up my Python tab here and
VS code.
And if we press the up key,
we'll see that this is the command
that VS code automatically
filled in to run my script.
So it's got the full path to my
python3 virtual environment and
then it's got the full path to my file.
I don't necessarily need all of that.
I can just say Python in
my virtual environment and
pass in the path like that.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Oops, sorry and only
to comment out my old code here because
the vehicle no longer has
the number_of_wheels.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Handy shortcut to
coming out a bunch of lines in VS code,
at least for OSX,
you can just select them and press Cmd+/.
And if you select commented out code and
press it again, it'll uncomment it.
Okay, let's try that again.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, this works.
A really cool thing that Python can
do is called run in interactive mode,
this is great for debugging and
it's not in the course website so
if you wanna know this, write it down.
All you need to do is pass the -i
flag after python before your script.
What this is gonna do is run
everything in this python file and
then it'll drop you into REPL.
So you can take a look at
the state of everything.
I see here that I made the daily variable.
Now, I can look at that right in my REPL.
So really nifty thing to know
when you're just debugging.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now, I'm gonna
show you some of our new instances.
So I'm gonna say my daily
driver is a car and
it's a Subaru, the make is a Crosstrek.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
now I can print out an up string,
"I drive (daily.make},
>> Nina Zakharenko: (daily.model).
>> Nina Zakharenko: It uses {daily.fuel)
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
drives on daily.num_wheels, okay?
>> Nina Zakharenko: What did I do here,
daily.make.
>> Speaker 2: Number_of_wheels.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes, number_of_wheels.
Thank you.
Okay, there we go.
Drive Subaru Crosstrek uses gas and
has four wheels.
I can do the same thing for truck.
I can say my truck is a Ford F350,
so awesome cool truck.
I can check the truck.make, truck.model,
what's the truck.fuel going to be?
>> Speaker 2: Gas.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's not gas.
So if I look at where I-
>> Speaker 2: Diesel,
I forgot what the default was.
[LAUGH]
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's It's okay, so
my truck fuel is gonna be diesel.
All my trucks are gonna be diesel,
pretty useful, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Using type
as instance and this subclass,
so the type of my truck is a truck.
The type of my daily driver,
[SOUND] I really can't type today,
there is no truck method here.
It is type of daily.
Okay, so it's car.
I can ask, isinstance(daily, Car).
What will I get?
Yeah, true, right?
Isinstance(truck, Truck), yeah.
And just a side note here.
I know that this truck is my
lowercase variable, my instance.
And I know that this capital Truck
is my class kind of just by looking
at it from naming convention, right?
It's one of the reasons that
convention is in Python or so powerful.
Awesome, now, I wanna ask
issubclass(Truck, Vehicle)?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yep, and
issubclass(Car, Vehicle)?
Yeah, what about issubclass(Vehicle, Car)?
>> Speaker 2: Nope.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Nope.